one million
darker
are like a lot
talking about your financial future out
those figures become applet all of your
sleep
caught at
uh... i'd like to start
uh... by posing a problem for you
and so i'm just gonna talk for a couple
minutes until two q and a because pat
what we want to loose talk about what's
on your wife but i'd like to think about
this for just a second
if as we walked out of here today
i said i would like to buy
ten percent of your financial future
i was going to write you a check today
from the state forest
you were going to give me ten percent of
everything you her
uh... how much would you want your for
that
modify one-tenth of you
and uh... i may take a little bit
incidently so
careful what you are
all right now
well i think it has a lot about that
logic
cop like that for a few let's see how
you're going to check for me today
in doing a lot with the money but
from the state for if you have to give
me
ten percent of what you were not
i think it would be very foolish
of you
any of you
if you ask for less than say fifty
thousand dollars out of the few years
before you're out
earning money in so i've got a few years
of that money there but then i would
start getting his royal yacht
visual along so
i really think that
if you thought about it
most of you would want
for a lot more that i think you'd be
right
uh... fortunately i didn't make this
deal with anybody when i started out so
i'm nobody's got a ten percent royally
may but
uh... i think that
fifty thousand what sort of the absolute
minimum
and if you think about that
that means the right today
you're worth five hundred thousand
because of ten percent is worth fifty
thousand in cash today
your potential
is worth a minimum on a hundred percent
faces
a five hundred thousand dollars that is
the big financial asset you've got it's
way more important
what you do with that five hundred
thousand dollar asset that you all today
whether you decide to buy stocks or
bonds or whether you put your money in a
mutual fund or pick your own stocks or
anything of that sort
the biggest financial asset
that you have going for you by miles
is the value of your own earning power
over the years
so that's really what you should focus
on you're focusing on your financial
full future
that means you should find focus on you
because whether your ten percent is
worth fifty thousand or a hundred
thousand three hundred thousand
which would be a five hundred thousand
millionaire three million for all of you
whether it turns out that be one of the
other is really dependent
i had a very large part on what you do
in the next few years
all of you in this room
have the brains to do extremely well in
life
you've all got the energy to do
extremely well in life
and the question is how do you apply it
if you've got a two hundred horsepower
motor
you get two hundred or spa robert
you get your full
potential or do you get a hundred or spa
our fifty horsepower
now there's two things that happen
hold you back
and getting
force power out of here
your engine whatever may be all of you
have the contentions
at one of those the lack of education
but that probably isn't going to happen
to very many people trump
if you don't have a lack of education
didn't it if you didn't have a chance to
get a decent education life
it would make any difference what that
potential was because
you've ever unblock
but the second most important thing
and equally as important
is in terms of the habits that you
develop in terms of what you do with
yourself
one week
hire people
we look for three qualities
we look for integrity
we look for intelligence
and we look for energy
but they don't have the first one
integrity the other two will kill you
because if you're hiring somebody
without integrity he really want to be
done and lazy gotcha major
blasting the world you won't want to be
smart energetic self
smart energetic only goals
with integrity
but i say well
you make your own decision on that you
can change
your i_q_ or how far you control
footballer how high you can jump
of the color of your hair very easily
but you can
elect
to have integrity that matches anybody
else has and if you match that
with intelligence which you have
and energy which you have
uh... you'll get an extraordinary
resulting you'd be very foolish to
somebody ten percent of yourself for
fifty thousand on the other hand
if you don't match it without your
potential
in a significant part going use
and i'll give you a little
simple test apply in terms of thinking
about the kinda habit she wanted about
if you don't have any haven't you want
to get you can be
it can be lazy who can be prompt you can
be it can be
late you can be honest you can cut
corners of the uh... police forces
and those resources for you to make
nobody else is going to make room for
you
and i would suggest that you play this
little game with me too
think about the person you would most
like to be in life
submit is one of your contemporaries
maybe somebody will orbit pick up the
person you admire the most person the
you change places with if you could
and then write down what you martin
just put it on a piece of paper
figure out the person that you would
least like change places with who really
turned you off
when you find repulsive
and lists the reasons why
that person turn you off so much
to put those on the other side of the
paper
and then look at that list
and you'll find that everything on the
left hand side with which in my and
other people
the qualities they bring to life
truthfulness
generosity all kinds of things
the finals of things you can do it
yourself it's very simple
got apply yourself but the habit shoe
formed and doing early on a military
through life
and on the other hand you'll find that
the things that make people repulsive
selfishness ob noxious use all these
things egotism
are things
but no one has to have if you find those
it yourself you can get rid of them as
well you get rid of them early so
all i suggest is that you're right
the right down the list of what
which admire
what you find uh...
contemptible
and decide that in other ones on the
left
i meant
add and admired side everyone's you're
going to acquire for yourself as you do
that when you're young and contrary to
the rest of your life this doesn't work
if you do it when you're fifty or sixty
by then they have a trip to well-formed
uh... but if you do it early
behavior becomes becomes a habit so
if you do that
two or three years now to go to the same
exercise
you'll find out the person you admire
the most as yourself
i can be a little bags under some
circumstances but it does
uh... but it's not it's not a bad thing
and that you want to be somebody like
and you don't want to be somebody
picture that you dislike and and uh...
formals habits early
uh... he basically can't mess i'll give
you one other small piece of advice is
just a corollary on this
and then we'll get to your questions in
and that is
as a general matters are one piece of
specific finance
uh... financial advice
i would say
in onboard credit cards just forget
about me
uh... where in various businesses issue
credit card the american public loves
credit cards but if you start revolving
debt on credit card you're going to be
paying
uh... eighteen or twenty percent and
you can't make
progress and your financial life
who are on borrowing money eighteen or
twenty percent
you can make a lot of money by lending
out earlier eighteen or twenty percent
over time
you can find a way that's good that
uh... will borrow from you but
you don't want to be on the side of the
equation
that's always behind in life
uh...
you know i was lucky i'd saved about ten
thousand dollars by the time i got out
of school that ten thousand dollars was
really worth millions i might have run
later on because after you get a family
member vaguely expenses role in but
but those are my tools to work with but
it was only because i was ahead of the
game
if you're behind a game by ten thousand
dollars at some point in paying eighteen
or twenty percent interest on it
you will never economically you'll never
get out of it cell
their partner that says
i want to know is where i'm going to die
so i'll never go there
events true international matters as
well you wanna figure out where you
don't want to be
uh... at a time in a void that i get
about a dozen letters a day
from people who are having terrible
problems
and there are two reasons why they have
terrible problems
one is
a number of them up had health problems
of some sort them and they have really
been hit by some or somebody in their
family has been hit by some kind of
catastrophic
uh... illness and that is that
you know it's a terrible thing to happen
to any family
and they get in
there are bills they can't pay and and
really only society consult that one
in terms of protecting people against
that but that's just plain bad luck
the other one is from people run up
credit card debt and uh...
they're facing bankruptcy evident from
bankruptcy once before
and they'll of what your money and they
can they can pay the interest on loan
pani principled
and a half of my letters come from
people like that and that that
that problem is avoidable
catastrophic illnesses not but
credit card debt has something to bring
on yourself and
it's way better
it's way easier
to stay out of trouble
than to get out of trouble financially
and and uh...
i will guarantee if you're in a big
record that you will be in trouble
probably the rest of your life in terms
of
uh... your financial situation on the
other hand if you get ahead of the game
uh...
even as on a very modest scale
money is coming in from investing
mandira that you're a
you b
people owe you money or equities oyu
ownership
and you'll be way ahead of the game
compared to paying it uh...
it's always been paying them
your creditors every month
my advice to you this sir
if you can't pay for don't buy it
it yourself in a position where you can
pay for anything and uh...
then we'll be glad to see abortion into
the rest of furniture market
now let's uh...
let's have some questions
we have a mic out there that
people can either go toward the travels
around her
and i can't necessarily situ well-fed
i think that one might touch each size
in just raise your hand waitress to come
to you
we have some electronic like mine
anything that's on your mind ask about
them
gottlieb actual
how do you guys people who are innocent
and curriculum and to make a pen
my keeping families into my non-standard
furman that mean uh... performing arts
center
music
how would you advise as to
keep
out financially weakness in the world
but stroop
that our market system
uh...
does not pay as well in some and spend
some activities as
might seem appropriate
for the importance of those activities
the society
just a teaching for example on the
teaching does not pay well
what could be more important i mean you
know you've got to be is
as interested in who you're too
the teachers of your children are
schedule your account desert and on
uh... whatever
firms winning the heavyweight title of
the world of that sort of thing but
it doesn't it doesn't pay well and and
it's a fundamental choice
uh... what you're going to go into
something it for many people could be of
the definable choice where they're going
to go into something you love or
something then
to try to make a lot of money i think
that
generally it pays to go with what you
love
uh... i think that
it's very hard to find people
when they get to be my age
say they're on
that they've love what they've done all
their life and feel was very worthwhile
uh... but they're terribly sad they made
that choice because they didn't make a
lot of money i idon't think anybody ever
ever said that to me that they wish
they'd gone into something else for this
or uncomfortable doing under didn't
enjoy it didn't feel very productive but
make a lot of money
so i don't i don't think you'll find
that's why would i would never go to
work
i would go to work
and whatever terms your honor
it may turn out to will be more
profitable than and you can thank but
almost everybody here will make
enough money
unless they get some terrible habits
along the way
to do reasonably well and in doing
reasonably well in this country
really is
is uh... is pretty darn good i mean
activities
it's not necessary to have
uh... huge amounts of money in order and
your ears of i enjoyed myself when i
wasn't
and my ten thousand dollars in
i live in the same house that i've lived
in when i was making when i had about
that i bought a forty one years ago
i'd like the house and i like the house
now
if you think about it
if you have a reasonable job
you'll be eating at mcdonalds and i'll
be there top so we're word approach
uh... on on food i mean
help in fact i was very clear actually
in baghdad
uh... i think on the dairy queen you'll
see me and you can order reading on the
menu i can order will be we both can
afford it
you know you old he'll wear the same
clothes i wear i'll pay more for my
suits but isn't good for money look
cheap on me so well will talk about the
same event
will both live in the same houses i live
in that house from forty one years ago
it is it's it's warm in winter and a
school in summer and it's comfortable
and you live in a house that's been
somewhere in that
whatever's is a negative you have fifty
more rooms orbital guesthouses relented
encourages brenda problems i mean you
have to worry about that
about the uh... greens keeper something
when you get through side
uh... i'd been in the house is the
people
uh... where the house is a work uh...
all probably two hundred times
uh... what my house is worth and i would
not be any heparin dose houses at all if
i could i'd be less happy i just have
one more thing didn't to worry about and
you know there
dozens of people around the place and
people quitting in people stealing from
him kinds of these
helicopter
we drive will drive the same kind of car
thank you probably got a better car i'd
record about eight years old i don't
know what it's worth now but
it took me around five and that i i'm
pretty happy what will watch
what what's the same television you know
well will work on the same computer
pretty much
the only difference will be
how we travel long distances
fly a plane that
more comfortable in
when flying southwest airlines or
something at which etc
i got nothing against babbitt that's the
one real big difference and
other than that i do what i like every
day i hope you you'll know what you like
every day to do and uh...
i work with nice people i hope you work
with nice people
and that's this twenty four hours in the
day and those are where the hours ago or
so
great wealth
uh...
the tiniest bit different
uh... in a real stp sense than having
just a decent
a decent income and uh...
and trade
a decent income
and something you love doing in
something where you feel worthwhile
doing it
huge well for you to trade off a lot of
your principles
i would be a terrible mistake
reviewing that acknowledges success more
on yourself helping teachings of others
well i had
i had the pipe
who was very lucky in life
uh... if you tell me who your heroes are
are uh... i will
make a pretty good prediction about how
what you're going to do and i i i i have
the right heroes i was very lucky in
life and uh...
my heroes never let me down and starting
with my dad
and then i had others in business and
so i have had
great teachers
some formal teachers some that were just
informal teachers teachers by instinct
for example
and uh...
if i hadn't had those
uh...
you know mike my life insurer would have
been very different if i'd been born any
place else when i was i was born in
nineteen thirty
uh... and
at the time
one out of fifty burst in the world one
united states so i came and against
fifty to one odds against being born
denied state
i would have probably been a disaster
you know if i been born in afghanistan
or peru or some place and that i was
four-to-one i won the lottery today i
was born you know by being born in this
country so all of you
uh... i mean you have you
the odds were probably fourteen to one
against you being born in this country
and uh... the roots
five time are likely to been born in
insuring their six times as
four five times more likely been born in
and in india or some other place where
would not have been is easy
to exploit them
for potentially account so we will won
the lottery in that respect them
and that's just plain luck
i mean that uh...
and i was lucky to be born at this time
and the capital allocation
is something
it pays off extremely well in the
society now
but it doesn't pay off in other
societies in that
didn't pay off you know many years ago
my but friend bill gates says that if i
would have been born a few thousand
years ago i have been some animals
launch
i can't run very fast i can't climb
trees and you know i just happen
those are talented nobody asked me to
climb trees now but uh...
there was a time when i'm out of an
important can
incidently bill would have been some
animals breakfast and he can not so fast
leader but
event uh...
what we are lucky
we just imagine being part of a hundred
years ago exactly the same talents and
how far they were thinking of that
of the average person the bailiff so
much better than that
the richest person would
uh... hundred or a hundred and fifty
years ago cell
uh...
morgan at respective lucky to be
one of terrific parents
i was lucky to be raise them online
again i think in a great public school
system i gotta start here
in the first eight grades
they gave me a foundation
that later when i went off the track a
few times
uh... carried me through because i had a
terrific great school education
in at writer analog roselle and one of
the reasons
i havent incidently is kind of
unfortunate but i had a great education
uh... in part
because
women were being
enormously discriminated against and
sold at that time
could be a teacher she could be a
secretary she could be a nurse
you know and i was about a actually and
i have to tell what pull in the united
states
limited to just a few jobs so you had to
abundance of talent
uh... in those
activities like nursing her toward her
teaching because
uh... a talent
with males was spread across
every act every formal worked activity
there was no with women it was
concentrated in a few areas and that
uh... benefit the it's kind of sad
because they've been benefit those
teachers but
but i was very lucky
have really been that way
uh... all my life and
what i do
is what i do is important is that what
it would be pure dusre governors does or
something of sorts
and i i think it's quite questionable
it pays off enormously well in a market
economy like the united states and uh...
but that's an accident
demanding to any innate ability of mine
underlining his marine it's an anti ten
omaha central high school a place for
you
one institution chemistry buffet
technology has been agreed country and
stimulating the world economy what are
your predictions for the future of out
of the technology industry and was white
is a teacher role in world economy in
the united states on download said
there's no question strumming world
upside down it's it's it's tons done
somewhat
already but
it will than i was just beginning
but is moving very fast
i met gates on july fifteenth nineteen
ninety-one dot there for a fourth of
july
uh...
celebration with a friend
and uh...
who subsequently died meg greenfield of
the washington post and she took us down
to those of the gates family
he tried to educate me about
and he too had better luck with
chimpanzees i mean i i was so there's
really a disaster but
but it's a good teacher
but one thing he did told me was that
at the time he said
you know you've got this model in your
head of the world
and your model
time and distance
as very limiting factors and he said
they are limiting factors anymore
receptivity
cost
talking to somebody around the world or
getting your message in front of
somebody or publishing
is that it's going to be zero and parcel
post a zero doesn't make any difference
in
you know that was revolutionary
it's happening already in a in a very
very big way and
it's just uh... what eight years later
and and it's it's it's exploding so
high-tech
information technology where we want to
call it
is changing the world
and it's going to change it and ah...
very very big way i would change and
that's one of things i think about a
businesses we buy
uh... we announce the purchase of the
yesterday
uh... by uh... furniture retailer and
and and and boston in the boston area
you know i think to myself what effect
does this new world of in terms of the
internet on furniture repairman we have
to think about questions like that
that the changes will be huge i will be
played bridge yesterday
uh... with people
uh... all over the country but i played
it with people all of the world logistic
down on my computer and i've got some
popcorn ironman khakis and a sweater and
i
i can have a bridge game in thirty
seconds with people all over the world
in
uh... no cost to add basically
now that's a lot different than trying
to arrange a game before people a mama
hawk anton hugged a one one guy wants to
play golf mother wants to watch baseball
and its
it it just it changes things in huge way
we are very fortunate i mean it's
indeed agreed to which the united states
leads to the world in this area mean we
have a lead
it's hard to think of who's in second
place
and fifteen or so years ago
this country had an inferiority complex
would be hard for you to remember to
shoot you weren't old enough to be
around them but in the in the early
eighties
we were wondering whether the germans
and japanese were going on everything
and if they were going to make all the
steel when they were going to make all
the cars
and everything else and the television
sets
and we were gonna flip hamburgers that
was the standard line
and
just imagine a short period like fifteen
years i've been changed around
in an important way that shane to
because
information
a revolution uh... where we had
like i said i don't know who
i don't know who you would name is being
in second place in the world but here's
the most important industry in the world
and the united states has this
incredible position
and removing all the time of that
position so
i think that
argues for a very
i think it argues for trivia future for
the world over time and i think it
argues even more for a terrific future
with this company our country
one of the best place for you to get
started now in securing their financial
future
uh... for forgot to secure their
financial future
freely youthful
well it's not
it's a very complicated uh...
it goes back to
getting full use out of your own talents
first
i mean there is a twin whether you're
going to be earning extra two excerpts
react see here
uh... twenty years from now
is going to be a function
awhile well how much talent you have but
i'll how well you use the talent you
already have
and uh...
so that is
the your best financial future
is your own ability
and and
and here
uh... capacity to
to use those abilities to their
potential
and
they can take that can be taken away
from the kerry kerrigan taxes
i mean that
you know most things
if you are not as a hobby serena stated
that they double the taxes than double
the taxes that changes
your ownership in the property because
now
in effect the taxing authorities all the
more about because they've
gotta greater command on the revenue
stream
uh... sending about
uh... almost any assets you have uh...
big they and they don't tax what's in
your head
and they don't act
here but what we did
start performing when u when you get to
work in the morning and
finish in the evening uh... to to your
potential one of things it amazes me
is how people who really do perform well
just sort of jump out at you want a
running a business when i got out of
school
you know everybody
would behave that way but they don't
most people
go through life in the sleepwalking and
added if you don't
you will stand out so
the big the biggest thing for your
financial futures yourself now
beyond that it is always being ahead of
the game rather than getting behind the
game it's saving a little no matter how
you do it i mean i delivered papers i
worked at pennies and sold well pulls
out a pinball machine i did a lot of
things
that enabled me gmail in about ten
thousand dollars by the time i got out
of school
uh...
ten thousand only goes for now the dead
then but it
having anything
so that your head of the game and not
getting behind the game
is enormously important i mean just
you know if you go to a hundred
and regard dash against a bunch of
people in life
uh... if you couldn't figure it out so
that when the gun goes off your ten or
fifteen yards ahead
instead of ten or fifteen yards behind
is going to make an enormous difference
in how the race comes out so
having having some net
resources
the member service whether in stocks or
bonds in my view let uh...
uh... and not having debt
when i've done goes off when you get out
of school
uh... is a huge crossover being behind
the game and uh...
it may come from dolores paper out in
the morning of may come from part-time
work someplace but
put aside a few dollars for yourself
that uh...
uh... so that
when the time comes in the other
yet of the work force uh...
your head of the game and not behind and
then once you get there don't get behind
by buying a lot of things that
if you're going to pay for sunday you're
paying twenty percent interest in
between
since bt please stay in maine and school
let me ask you questions
that they're missing him on the market
on this but i think
my name is patrick burland from
plymouth right
i was wondering with the increasing
hahahha
education today
welcome students due to deal with it
that's one survivor college
well i think that's a tough line and and
and i decide that office passes i could
and i would encourage you and others as
possible and
and uh...
uh... before that time came out i would
say this
uh...
in my experience
in business
there's very little difference
if any
between a very high price business
education
and what's available a lot of for a lot
less money so i i mean i a m
i went to the university abreast of
lincoln
i last year in college i went to work
for a couple years before that uh...
uh...
i learned as much as university breast
as i did at wharton at uh...
uh... and
it's nothing against warner measures
that we had a very good school he writes
and terrific professors that at lincoln
so i i would not assume
that if i was paying a few thousand
dollars for an education
uh... here in the state for example
purses pain
huge amounts of swear
that it was going to make a lot of
difference uh...
uh... most of the a lot of the education
uh... unit you need to be prodded to the
right direction an awful lot of it is is
is itself
the self-taught
me andrew carnegie a wonderful thing in
this country in terms of libraries and
are you spent a lot of time
lovers and have locked in at the
university will not want what was then
the university of mom on the head
i couldn't get out for hours and uh...
midnight i get so entranced with what i
was reading but
there's there's all kinds of information
available now internet it's so much
you know issue that was then so
it's out there to be taken
it isn't necessary to pay
thirty or thirty five oh three dollars a
year ago to some
uh... big-name school
to get the education at all
if you're not alone accounting it yet
which is about the most important of
course you take in business
going to tell you not accounting
absolutely as well
and my view going to you i was going to
garber i mean i i see uh...
i would i would abed on that and uh...
i wouldn't grow up
huge bills
interviewing a business education out
you know if you got to get a medical
education
i mean there's certain professions
worded
not be any way around
spending a fair amount of money and
getting in debt to some degree has been
going to make that decision yourself but
certainly try to minimize it
and uh...
uh... and i was sort of i would have
figured out
how i would
campbell that debt
and say a five-year period after i got
out of school where i would think twice
about incurring
there's a question up here if we can
bring a microphone
uh... managed hong kong come here every
single minute advisory council
uh... what advice would you have for a
forming nonprofit organization
performing a non-profit organization
always tried to avoid form a non-profit
organization
well i i would bet would depend entirely
what a lot wanted accomplish i mean
uh... you know it could be one there was
a hospital and another thing
uh... it over
visitors and are so many types of it so
i
you know you've got to get people that
are
better experienced in involved
uh...
internet idea like that and uh...
uh... but uh... the defense so much on
that
on the objectivity
you're working at
down promises shown here
microphone for a long time
i mean carhartt right-hand nine west
high school
and engineer very speedy involved an
airplane hampering inclined he think
that is very individual and my headline
you know i wouldn't say that i am not
and i i do certain subject and i think i
think
europe your model as a citizen for
example and all of the walrus god and he
is
far more so that were involved
but i am and uh...
incident his predecessor peter came it
was too but warmers carried it to new
heights so i
uh... i don't want to
uh... on any mammal for that myself i do
some things uh...
uh...
one of the problems i have that love
what i do so much that uh...
that'd be a sort of takes over and i'm
like a
uh... guy that likes to play a lot of
offer some things that the liked i liked
the business i'm in
uh... i've got a family
district very actively uh...
uh... some my children were
worked on
almost anything that comes along in the
civic area and
you know it's
you do
and and people do what they want to meet
the criteria great and and uh...
uh...
i've never talked to anybody that
that enjoyed working in civic activities
that india with was very worthwhile
after they've done to build something
and
participating in building something
always
offline and acting head of the time we
have a golf tournament for example
september and
we raise some money for seventy beverage
a good time to nobody's paying any price
by doing i'm having a good time to
people come running a good time
and then we have to show almost two
people
you should be enjoying things you go on
and and you will want to work in civic
activities that
but interesting that you do the same in
politics unconnected
you know if if you
if you get
if you find
political ideas drupal apart
or politicians who particularly
you down if i would really didn't get a
lot of self satisfaction out of
i working continue doing something
worthwhile so i
just just follow your instincts on that
uh... they my recommendation
okay
prime minister regret from the ritz out
by school
prided i guess the old beat youth of
today and i question
what do you see is the problem the
biggest economic problem facing
uh... visa today going into the future
now on
i don't think give that uh...
you're going to have enormous economic
problems i think you will live in a
society
where the average person
uh... lives better
by a significant margin
than the average one of the generation
earlier two generations earlier that's
been the history of this country it's a
marvelous country that way
when you really have four and a half
percent of the world's population
you know and and
what's been accomplished years
incredible fifty three percent of them
of the value of corporations that are
publicly traded in the world exists in
the united states with four and a half
percent of population
this country always
has done well isn't uh...
and they say in stocks
that you've got should buy stock in the
business is so good that even an idiot
can run it
because sooner or later one well and and
that's not terrible advice lessons have
been sort of his used in this country
from time to time i mean we've
we'd have all these problems that have
come along if you look back on the ice
hundred years and was all the problems
this country is going to do
integrate a very long list in a lot of
people who focused on those problems of
the time
have missed the bigger picture
and the bigger picture
is that every generation was better than
the one before
and that's because of uh...
ice because of
savings because they didn't enable
people
to create new tools to do better things
as they go on as also
due to an environment
that lets people realize their potential
to a greater degree than most other
environments in the world it's far from
perfect i mean it's it's it's adult
partisan perfect
but it is better than anything else
around i mean in in this country
uh... you've got
you don't have some commissar something
running haiti
you know the of a big business in this
country you've got a guy like jack welch
and and a fellow like jack welch makes
a difference of might be
in terms of the productivity of that
business over a period of decades and
productivity is whatever
is what causes the standard of living to
rise so anything that
a system that throws up the jack welch
is of the world to run businesses
is going to have an enormous advantage
over society that doesn't by heredity
or the does it by government edict
and we've got
we're closer to that society
that i've described in than than
anything than any other country and it's
its lead do to great things and i will
continue to lead the great thing so i
think
i think you've got the best future
uh... you know you don't face you don't
face a war
and you've got a view that you've got a
a break
uh... you've got a better
uh...
future in terms of
achieving neutral rewards
than any
generation in history so
which encourage places
when i get taken upon it by field no
don't
behind wilkins for millard west high
school
i was wondering if you or if you could
not speak for mister gates were afraid
of
the impact of white u_k_ on the economy
were specifically the stock market bill
and and i'm glad you indigestion bring
another day because i
i'm the last night in the world
understand that white too chaotic
you know i don't know why this
microphones working i don't know you
know why lights go on a
i flip on the switch of my television
and pray i mean i say that's all
it's all be i'm a bit
i would say that's the smartest people i
know in that area
uh... in large part
think it's gonna be a non-event
in this country i don't think against
speak for the rest of the world but
uh...
uh... so i think uh...
i think you'll wake up on
january
first in fine the world doesn't change
from december thirty first
now i would say that she might you might
get a whole bunch of friends a right to
checks for a billion dollars on december
thirty first and deposit them in
you know who knows what'll happen can't
lose anything i mean like response and
it's a system that's fouled up you know
you you might find a lot of money to
your account but i wouldn't count on it
there
where we have that we had without a
college activity etc
we have about fourteen or fifteen
hundred
uh... customers on pieces of airplanes
with us and we so we've got a hundred
we got a hundred and sixty their planes
of some of our own flying around and be
very interesting to me to see
what p
advance
people on the cell at a time when their
money use it would be a very insincere
many
sign up for
january first st
twelve oh one boat dealer
it wouldn't bother me to fly middle east
on january first or do anything else on
january first
ideally i hope you getting to bird
watcher posters plane
gamestop
and jeannie solace from clint bolick
house went and had a decidedly invested
time and money and
yellow wine
businesses that have good economics now
what what a good economics will good
economics or business that has
some kind of a mold around that
makes its product or service search
location or something
a little more time
undesirable into the customer than any
other sort of comparable product
uh...
you know the number one candy bar in the
last thirty or forty years has been
snickers
people don't fool around with different
candy bars
they fool around with different
length dresses therefore on the yellow
kinds of things but they don't fool
around with candy bars
because they figured we're going to lay
out fifty cents or whatever his input of
their mouth and
they're not going to run for fifty cents
a putting in your mouth looking at
herself of competence of twelve forty
five cents and put something else i'm
i'm also
you find that very stable
and we like businesses
that we think
we can figure out where they're going to
be in ten or fifteen years
i don't know where the information
technology businesses are going to be in
ten or fifteen years idler snickers bars
are going to be in ten or fifteen years
are going to be selling just about the
spin on the way they do now
i don't worry please gum is going to be
in ten or fifteen years be is not to be
a lot of innovation
in in insuring
uh... the ended internet soccer cause
people to put showing them a dominant
least
makes me think so but i don't accept but
uh...
ob
it's predictability
regarding the sustainability of a
competitive advantage some something
special about proc
so we look for those kind of products
and then we look for people
but running the business that are honest
aane
clubs
it's easier to find people hospitable
because the fine
businesses that are
going just a wonderful for a long period
of time
there are a business and look like a
rock star wonderful work
really about breyer over time
but that's what we're looking for m
nice thing about it or not to find very
many
we find one a year
that's terrific
you don't need a hundred thousand great
investment ideas do well
you need a couple
and uh...
the discipline
is the most important thing witty
brainpower
with winnie discipline
you don't need a hundred and fifty i_q_
to do what i do
you know where you don't need a hundred
and forty you know they are in thirty
five you may need a hundred and fifteen
or something like that and
and but she did he disciplined
you have to wait
until you see the fat pitch to swing up
because investing is a noble called
strike game you know up if i were
baseball player
and i only like pitches
two inches above my navel
and all some guy could run out and he
could pitch may you know three or four
inches below that i get called on
strikes because i've never find
officially
you can get colorado strikes in baseball
you have to
you have to swing it pitches that you
you don't even necessarily like
degree after the county of san two
strikes
in business
units who had anything you can sit there
and
the paper says general motors of sixty
years as john electrical a hundred and
fifty years as general dynamics of sixty
three
and if you'd like this prices you have
to swing you can wait there
day after day after day after day and
there are no called strikes
now when you swing when you decide to
buy something
than enough you swing in this is just
right but he
it's a marvelous came to the end because
there are no called strikes and you can
simply wait
for that one behind
for six months for a year
two or three years
when you really know what you're doing
where you like the price
we'd like the people running the
business
and then you swing in the only need a
few swings in your lifetime
uh... so that's the way we got a pic
businesses we try to stay with with
things we understand
and that there can be all kinds of
wonderful investment opportunities out
there
but i don't understand i don't know what
cocoa beach are going to do next year
you know maybe you know but i don't know
either
i don't know what i don't know what
uh... crude oil stocks sell for
i don't have to know
it's just have to know all of the things
at the know what i know
pastor noel where the limits of maya
understanding hard
what i call
what my circle conferences
and finally able to evaluate five
percent of the businesses in the world
no problem i just a within a five
percent and try and find something
and that's most people get in trouble
because
in investments because they
what we did a cheap and i look at the
support of salsa
they hear about other people making
money nothing upsets people so much of
their about their friends making money
cabinet
that's very destructive to discipline
because i think i got smart guy next
door neighbor's just bought that new car
with the money made trading stocks on
the internet so i can die
well the answers you cannot work dot you
will lose money for trade stocks
actively
and uh...
uh... it's it's hard to exercise at this
point
but anytime you buy something
you should be able to take out a
one patient a paper
i say i'm buying travel more assists
sixty-five i'm buying gallagher hundred
fifty
because
and you should write down the reasons
to cancel out the sheet
it's because somebody told me about a
cocktail party last night that's not
good enough
because because my broker told me about
it that's not good enough
it's a you've got to have a reason
for thinking that it makes an
intelligent investor you do the same
thing if you're buying a farm apartment
house provide apartments are by this
parma
thousand dollars an acre because i think
i can earn sixty dollars an acre on it
if quan sells such-and-such destroyed
himself such-and-such should be able to
such-and-such
and you've figured out
it's the same reason you're buying
businesses and when you buy stocks
you're buying a little piece of the
business
and as part of the most important thing
to remember and an interesting is that
when you're buying a stock your vital
piece of the vote was sent
if you're buying it had an attractive
price for the business for the whole
business
you donate money
and if you aren't
over time you walk money
promote michael
home reverend jackson jesse jackson
charges were there
you seem to believe that the moral
standards astute today's society will
eventually affect this business
how you feel this will affect us as
youth growing up in nine states he said
the most important to stop
poetry institute
opec disagrees
it's byo
you reunite
well i think
very difficult
quantify
moral standards overtime i mean at that
you know you could give you pick out
huge weaknesses at any given time in
terms of how
before the country's behaving and and
and and and you'd strike so i think it's
normally difficult to quantify
uh... i think
by and large we have made
progress in what i would call
institutionalized moral standards
in this country
i mean the the the uh...
uh... bell in terms of slavery in terms
of the uh... in terms of them in the
women women couldn't vote you know a
century ago at uh...
uh...
half the country were second-class
citizens in that respect in a very and
they had
much lesser rights in terms of
inheritance and all kinds of things
uh...
the income tax
did exist
a hundred years ago so the idea of
taxing people according that
to how much the
they've benefitted from society in their
income
uh... didn't exist so
i think in terms of institutionalized
moral standards
the country has made
really quite significant progress uh...
and uh... in the last hundred years i
think you know
there's a nor must distance to go i
think we're going on the right direction
maybe by fits and starts
but i think we're going to write
correction and i think
uh...
you know that there is that there will
be a
it will be a significant costs everybody
in this role as they live in a more
moral society forty years from now than
callosum although i think the odds are
that they will
i think the country moves in that
direction very difficult to do it
all kinds of interested
work against that but
uh...
anne and i think the american people
want to
and then is sought civil rights manitoba
television to dramatize what was going
on in
people don't want europe prefer not to
think about it
it got through to the conscience of
uh... the american people
and uh...
uh... allot of progress has been made
there and there's a lot left to be made
but they're it's better that i was
and the pace may seem very slow to those
people involved and i can understand
that
uh...
the pace
you know for woman's suffrage
for decades and decades and decades
woman could be on a jury
that i was reading the trial part
sterile
which took place in california of
nineteen oh ten or eleven
uh... there were no women on the jury
that one was in a lot of the behavior
we're citizens in that sense
so it's
the moral
behavior of the country has my view
improved but it uh...
uh... them up
and it'll continue to improve and i hope
you all in this room do your part to
help approach
matures from central high
and uh...
wondering how us into stock market so
high right now
would be smart for us to give
to get involved now are to wait till
trickles down a little
yeah i can tell you whether or not to
buy stocks dot generally
i think it's important that you save
money
at on what they want to put the stock
market out there dept
i don't think is
terribly important i think if your
interested stocks
issued by a and you've got a couple you
should buy if you i mean i i don't get
any way of running about them
better than x printing it when im papers
with the same
i can guarantee you if you lose money on
paper lose real money it's a different
experience and uh...
i am so i i i think they're think you'll
learn more about yourself
uh...
if you do it that way i bought my first
arc
when i was eleven i was actually a
liberal some of the time and by about
three shares of city service preferred
thirty-eight panna
went down to twenty seven which
something i still remember even has a
lot of time
uh... and then a lot of four and i sold
at i'm a five bucks
on my free shares after commissions and
then i went to two hundred and something
so
you know i i i probably remember that a
little better if i'd been doing it on
paper it
i thought we were on doing a lot of
things between about age eleven and
nineteen in the stock market i did
shortsighted all kinds of
technical analysis i've read every book
i could get on the subject
i didn't do that well i can do terrible
but but i patted agree just while rob
but bite
that meant by the age of nineteen when i
read ben graham spoke of the universe
depressed him like that
i went and bought this book called
intelligent buster just come out
and i had an enormous impact on me
now if i had done
in the previous eight years i've got all
over the lot
i'm not so sure that that book where the
sender background and i was by that time
i was prepared
to read and read was book which changed
my life and actually
the incredible life
uh...
uh... i wouldn't be a part of the if i
had written a book
part of life is getting
when something does happen that's
significant
you can call us
the significance of it and know what to
do with it
i would say that first eight years
before her out
it without produced nothing financially
to speak of
uh...
produced a lot in terms of getting my
mind preparer
but what i really didn't read something
that makes sense so i was ready to
accept that
and i actually went back in
when to call me the study under the
under graham
because of
of reading that book of all kinds of
things flowed out of itself
i would encourage you if you're
interested in the field
uh...
to do a few things but so far but it was
intelligence possible
i would try to stick with things
businesses i thought i understood
but still get out that sheet of paper
and i'd read i'm doing this because
and just trust my reasoning that i go
back and review the year later on
and see whether what you thought would
be true turned out to be true
so i would always checked myself
i believe in grading myself on
everything of doctors have post-mortems
and they they do it because they were on
from post-mortems
uh... and business people don't like to
do postmarked when im all i'm i can be
on the board of the company
building plants are buying companies
and everyone two years later
tour i check out how the decision turned
out does it
they can be unpleasant
but you learn from post-mortems
and uh...
you don't wanna learn we burn from other
people's mistakes in your own this
pattern from a few of your own to and
uh...
the time to do it is when you're young
you can do maybe one more
direct assault wonderware
maybe maybe two more p
well my name is pete wilson from craig
improv
my question is
toward extent do you feel that the
government
with uh... the current policies of
welfare and social security is it
financially competent and physically
prepared
for the future
i think i think that
the country as a whole is quite
quite well prepared for the future of
that doesn't mean that
with about every policy they have but
uh...
i think
eight we have an enormously rich society
and want to reverse a site and they'll
get richer
uh... everyone isn't going to
participate in that somewhat will
participate because of
physical disabilities either because a
mental disabilities other because of
shortcomings in the education they
receive winner dr all kinds of reasons
we have a prosperous in our society
to be able to take care of
of those people
and we should take care of them
and how we do what so that they feel
most useful in life and how we do it so
that we continue to encourage people to
be more productive themselves all that i
mean those are
that easy questions but
but that shouldn't take our i'd off the
wall of feeling we should do something
about it that uh...
uh... opt-in i'd put my pose this
problem sometimes the people i say let's
assume that it's twenty four hours
before you're born
all of you can take the steps twenty
four hours before it went
and then she comes to you
and the genie says
overdrew their again out there
will call you go
and the jenny says job
as you look pretty promising to make
i think you've got kind of a sense of
fair play in
at a good mind
and so i'm gonna let you have an
extraordinary opportunity
i'm going to let you designed the world
into what you're going to be born in
twenty four hours
it's yours
you pick out the political rules
you pick up the economic rules
you pick up the social rules you
designed the world
and we're more than twenty four hours
you're going to be one that i world
and that's the world standing just for
your lifetime
for your children's lifetime fairground
shorts lifetime
and you having or some of the genie
jokes in the past would say
what's the catch
and jenny said well it's a very slight
catch
soon went when you're born in twenty
four hours you're going to emerge in
this world you designed
but what you don't know
is whether you're going to be born
black or white
male or female
rich or poor
brighter retarded
able-bodied or infirm
in the united states or afghanistan
all you know
is that you're going to reach into this
barrel which now has six billion bowles
was withheld representing one person
every person in the world
and you're going to participate in what
i call the ovarian lottery
you can take one bought a rubber never
get another book that u
area one ball not even a merchant
now what kind of rules
do you wanna have for that society
not knowing which ball you're gonna get
now that night
but deal with the way
i think people should think about
social policy and if you're born if
you're lucky enough to be born this
country you've won the lottery already
we should have a system in my view
that encourages the jack welch is in the
bill gates is an all out to work
far beyond the time when it has any
economic significance to m we want
people commanding those resources
extremely able the commanding the mets
house pets have a how the standard of
living moves forward
so we should want
you know we should one tom osborne
go to nebraska we should want we should
want bill gates designing software and
we don't want a mix up those two hundred
well i wouldn't want to go coaching in
the press kit uh... sold
you what do you want people fill out a
system that
directs
gets people other potential m
and puts them
in the position where they can do the
most good for society
which also wanna system for the people
get the wrong lol
timing somebody's going to get the ball
you know that says eighty i'd kill some
is gonna get the ball
that says this is easier that disease
early in life to cripple zone
and we've got a rich in our society
that we can help we can take care of
those people and i think that
if your question i think that this
society will move more and more in that
direction it has the capability of
moving more and more in that direction
as our resources
uh... and our output increases and i
think the
it has the will to do that in a general
way although i can't say they've always
been taught to fits and starts so their
is no shortage
in the united states of resources
there's no shortage of output
you have to have a system
that encourages people
to behaved to the limit of their
abilities and puts them in the right
place
but then you have to make sure that
everybody gets taken care of two
now we can do one more and then we will
break
put this all over the microphone woman
here
make the decision
hyman's bengal were going on solid
and i wanna know how you can to media of
extra-large in other places
months
small question uh...
well but obviously does
simply because it's
is move so far technologically
is it's brought it together yahoo and i
was over china two years ago when i was
right after the time of the women's
conference in
and uh... in beijing
and i was reading
the chinese
coverage
of that conference a and of course it
it had nothing to do and what was taking
place but the internet was coming and
and and
you know you couldn't
you can access
the washington post to the new york
times and i i get the washington post at
nine thirty year night
in effect
i never could get that
next day on untrue through physical
delivery but i'd buy electronic delivery
i can read it
uh... denver bali earlier the most
people in washington to repeat itself
ability to communicate
and the degree to which the world that
have awareness of what's going on every
place in the world is just
you know it's been applied only
and that will help that they wrote them
a lot of things that come out of that
there plus overtime but that they have
been a b
the ability of information to be
available to everyone
worldwide almost instantly
instantaneously its
it's it's it's to be huge advances and
things like medicine for example justice
uh...
it's it's it's a net plus it has a
it has a big affected
the definition of media has now been
expanded
anonymously i mean there were three
television networks and
in the nineteen and you know in the
early nineteen sixties and that was that
there were three highways information
traveled electronically
if the three piece of information were i
love lucy and i want something else and
something else those with the three
choices of information or entertainment
that you had
first tens and tens of millions of
people selling their looking at it too
now it's unlimited and that's only for
three or so decades so
it's just exploded and it'll continue to
explore them
net i think it's a plus
and i think i it's one o'clock i want to
thank you all up
i wish you well you're going to do a
terrific now